CI/CD is a process for streamlining the delivery of developer code to end users. This process involves many steps including linting, testing, building, packaging, and deployment. Linting ensures that the produciton code maintains the enforced standards so that it is easy to read and maintain. Testing should be applied to not only the newly changed branch but also the merged branch to assure a working product before proceeding to the following steps. Building can vary from project to project, but for the purpose of TypeScript web applications, the TypeScript code must be transpiled into Javascript, the front end must be built into its /dist directory, and the /dist directory must be copied into the backend. Packaging requires the program to be bundled into a single deliverable, typically done by Webpack. Finally, the packaged application is deployed to the end user. All of these processes can be accomplished through various means, but rather than do each manually we can leverage software to automate these steps. Through the use of GitHub Actions we can use cloud servers to store and run our application during the CI/CD process. Alternatively larger corporations and projects may prefer to leverage the rich customization options provided by a self hosted CI/CD tool like Jenkins. Small teams with applications in active development expecting to release their project soon are likely best suited by GitHub actions as they won't need to buy and set up a server, the configuration will be simple and robust, and the computing power offered by GitHub actions is sufficient for small projects.
